Undeprecate the Traversal API and bring back old examples (#39)
neo4j/docs-java-reference: modules/ROOT/pages/traversal-framework/traversal_framework_example.adoc

> :description: The Neo4j Traversal Framework Example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: A Neo4j Traversal Framework example.
```

:org-neo4j-graphdb-Direction-both: {neo4j-javadocs-base-uri}/org/neo4j/graphdb/Direction.html#BOTH

[[examples-how-to-use-the-traversal-framework]]
= Traversal Framework Example

> A link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-TraversalDescription}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.TraversalDescription`^] is built using a fluent interface and such a description can then spawn several link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Traverser}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Traverser`^] objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-TraversalDescription}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.TraversalDescription`^] is built using a fluent interface.
Such a description can then spawn several link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Traverser}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Traverser`^] objects.
```

image::traversal_framework_example.svg[role="middle"]

[NOTE]
====

> The source code for the examples can be found here: link:https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-documentation/blob/{neo4j-version}/embedded-examples/src/main/java/org/neo4j/examples/TraversalExample.java[`TraversalExample.java`^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source code for the examples can be found at link:https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-documentation/blob/{neo4j-version}/embedded-examples/src/main/java/org/neo4j/examples/TraversalExample.java[`TraversalExample.java`^].
```

====

> With the definition of the RelationshipTypes as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the definition of the `RelationshipTypes` as
```

[source, java]
----
private enum Rels implements RelationshipType
{
    LIKES, KNOWS
}
----

> The graph can be traversed with for example the following traverser, starting at the node with the `name = 'Joe'`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the graph can be traversed with, for example, the following traverser starting at the node with the `name = 'Joe'`:
```

[source, java]
----
for ( Path position : db.traversalDescription()
        .depthFirst()
        .relationships( Rels.KNOWS )
        .relationships( Rels.LIKES, Direction.INCOMING )
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 5 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += position + "\n";
}
----

> The traversal will output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The traversal will thus output:
```

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)<-[KNOWS,5]-(6)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)-[KNOWS,4]->(4)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)-[KNOWS,4]->(4)-[KNOWS,3]->(3)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)-[KNOWS,4]->(4)-[KNOWS,3]->(3)-[KNOWS,2]->(2)
----

> Since a `TraversalDescription` is immutable it is also useful to create template descriptions which holds common settings shared by different traversals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since a `TraversalDescription` is immutable, it is useful to create template descriptions that include common settings shared by different traversals.
```

For example, start with this traverser:

[source, java]
----
friendsTraversal = db.traversalDescription()
        .depthFirst()
        .relationships( Rels.KNOWS )
        .uniqueness( Uniqueness.RELATIONSHIP_GLOBAL );
----

> This traverser would yield the following output (starting from the node with the `name = 'Joe'`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should yield the following output (starting from the node with the `name = 'Joe'`):
```

[source, java]
----
(0)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)<-[KNOWS,4]-(1)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)<-[KNOWS,4]-(1)<-[KNOWS,6]-(5)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)<-[KNOWS,4]-(1)<-[KNOWS,5]-(6)
----

> Create a new traverser from it, restricting depth to three:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then create a new traverser from it, restricting depth to three:
```

[source, java]
----
for ( Path path : friendsTraversal
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 3 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += path + "\n";
}
----

> This will give the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should be the output:
```

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)
----

> Or how about from depth two to four?

Reviewer: Not sure if I kept the meaning:

```suggestion
In case you want to traverse from depth two to four:
```

> That is done like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[source, java]
----
for ( Path path : friendsTraversal
        .evaluator( Evaluators.fromDepth( 2 ) )
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 4 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += path + "\n";
}
----

This will give the following output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)<-[KNOWS,4]-(1)
----

For various useful evaluators, see the link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Evaluators}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Evaluators`^] Java API or simply implement the link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Evaluator}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Evaluator`^] interface yourself.

If you are not interested in the Paths, but the Nodes you can transform the traverser into an iterable of nodes like this:

[source, java]
----
for ( Node currentNode : friendsTraversal
        .traverse( node )
        .nodes() )
{
    output += currentNode.getProperty( "name" ) + "\n";
}
----

This will give the following output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
Joe
Sara
Peter
Dirk
Lars
Lisa
Ed
----

> Relationships are fine as well, here is an example how to get them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do this with relationships as well. 
Here is an example:
```

:description: A Neo4j Traversal Framework example.

:org-neo4j-graphdb-Direction-both: {neo4j-javadocs-base-uri}/org/neo4j/graphdb/Direction.html#BOTH

[[examples-how-to-use-the-traversal-framework]]
= Traversal Framework Example

A link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-TraversalDescription}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.TraversalDescription`^] is built using a fluent interface.
Such a description can then spawn several link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Traverser}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Traverser`^] objects.

image::traversal_framework_example.svg[role="middle"]

[NOTE]
====
The source code for the examples can be found at: link:https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-documentation/blob/{neo4j-version}/embedded-examples/src/main/java/org/neo4j/examples/TraversalExample.java[`TraversalExample.java`^].
====

> With the definition of the `RelationshipTypes` as

Reviewer 2: I think a preamble setting up the example would be really useful. It seems to dive straight into details assuming we know we are looking for people Joe likes / knows in some graph.

[source, java]
----
private enum Rels implements RelationshipType
{
    LIKES, KNOWS
}
----

the graph can be traversed with, for example, the following traverser starting at the node with the `name = 'Joe'`:

[source, java]
----
for ( Path position : db.traversalDescription()
        .depthFirst()
        .relationships( Rels.KNOWS )
        .relationships( Rels.LIKES, Direction.INCOMING )
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 5 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += position + "\n";
}
----

The traversal will thus output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)<-[KNOWS,5]-(6)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)-[KNOWS,4]->(4)
(0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)-[KNOWS,4]->(4)-[KNOWS,3]->(3)

> (0)<-[LIKES,1]-(5)-[KNOWS,6]->(1)-[KNOWS,4]->(4)-[KNOWS,3]->(3)-[KNOWS,2]->(2)

Reviewer 3: I think again we should include a drawing or something of what the initial graph looks like, cause by just reading this page without actually going to the code, this output cannot be understood

Author: There is a picture of the graph above :)

----

Then create a new traverser from it, restricting depth to three:

[source, java]
----
for ( Path path : friendsTraversal
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 3 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += path + "\n";
}
----

This should be the output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)
----

In case you want to traverse from depth two to four:

[source, java]
----
for ( Path path : friendsTraversal
        .evaluator( Evaluators.fromDepth( 2 ) )
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 4 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += path + "\n";
}
----

This will give the following output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)<-[KNOWS,4]-(1)
----

To see other useful evaluators, check the link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Evaluators}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Evaluators`^] Java API or simply implement the link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Evaluator}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Evaluator`^] interface yourself.

> If you are not interested in the Paths, but the Nodes, you can turn the traverser into an iterable of nodes like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Traverser` also has a `nodes()` method that will return an iterable of all the nodes in the paths:
```

[source, java]
----
for ( Node currentNode : friendsTraversal
        .traverse( node )
        .nodes() )
{
    output += currentNode.getProperty( "name" ) + "\n";
}
----

This will give the following output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
Joe
Sara
Peter
Dirk
Lars
Lisa
Ed
----

You can do this with relationships as well.
Here is an example:

[source, java]
----
for ( Relationship relationship : friendsTraversal
        .traverse( node )
        .relationships() )
{
    output += relationship.getType().name() + "\n";
}
----

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
KNOWS
KNOWS
KNOWS
KNOWS
KNOWS
KNOWS
----

== Example
Below is an example of how to implement a procedure using the Traversal Framework.

> This allows the Traversal Framework to be used side by side with Cypher. The transaction and logger are made available through the Procedure Framework:

Reviewer 3: We should provide a link to the pages indicating how to load procedures in the database and an example of how to call `findFriends` from Cypher

:description: A Neo4j Traversal Framework example.

:org-neo4j-graphdb-Direction-both: {neo4j-javadocs-base-uri}/org/neo4j/graphdb/Direction.html#BOTH

[[examples-how-to-use-the-traversal-framework]]
= Traversal Framework Example

Here are some examples to highlight how one might use the Traversal Framework.
See the graph below which illustrates a small group of friends.

> image::traversal_framework_example.svg[role="middle"]

Reviewer: While doing an editorial review, I realized this image is missing. Could you please check it @nadja-muller @gem-neo4j ?

Author: Nice finds, I have added a new PR based on these 2 (as this branch was already merged) :) https://github.com/neo4j/docs-java-reference/pull/40

----

Then create a new traverser from it, restricting depth to three:

[source, java]
----
for ( Path path : friendsTraversal
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 3 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += path + "\n";
}
----

This should be the output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)
----

In case you want to traverse from depth two to four:

[source, java]
----
for ( Path path : friendsTraversal
        .evaluator( Evaluators.fromDepth( 2 ) )
        .evaluator( Evaluators.toDepth( 4 ) )
        .traverse( node ) )
{
    output += path + "\n";
}
----

This will give the following output:

[source, output, role="noheader"]
----
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)
(0)-[KNOWS,0]->(2)<-[KNOWS,2]-(3)<-[KNOWS,3]-(4)<-[KNOWS,4]-(1)
----

To see other useful evaluators, check the link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Evaluators}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Evaluators`^] Java API or simply implement the link:{org-neo4j-graphdb-traversal-Evaluator}[`org.neo4j.graphdb.traversal.Evaluator`^] interface yourself.

> The `Traverser` also has a `nodes()` method that will return an iterable of all the nodes in the paths:

Reviewer: An iterable what? Iterable list, result?

Author: The Java Iterable (https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Iterable.html), I capitalised it and added back ticks around it to show it is part of the code now, I think that helps :)

Reviewer: It does! Thank you :)
